hey this is pressure Walker reminding
you to mind your decisions if X is equal
to one minus the square root of five
then X to the power four minus four X
cubed plus 4x squared is what value you
have two minutes to solve this problem
and you cannot use a calculator pause
the video if you'd like to give it a try
and when you're ready keep watching to
learn how to solve this problem
[Music]
so your first instinct might be to
directly substitute X is equal to one
minus square root of five but if you do
that it'll actually be pretty
complicated direct calculation is
tedious and there are many steps in
which you can make a mistake so I would
instead suggest that you simplify this
first by factoring first we'll take a
look at these X terms we can factor out
x squared then we're left with a
quadratic equation which we can further
factor this is equal to the quantity X
minus two squared we then further
simplify by taking the exponent outside
this grouping now let's substitute X is
equal to one minus the square root of
five
the second factor will simplify to be
negative square root of 5 minus one will
now flip the terms in the first factor
the reason we're doing this is that we
get a product of a sum and a difference
which will be equal to a difference of
squares so this will be equal to
negative square root of 5 squared minus
one squared the first term will simplify
to be 5 and then we have 5 minus 1 which
is equal to 4 4 squared is then equal to
16 and that's our answer the lesson is
that it sometimes helps to think before
you start calculating thanks for
watching and for making mind your
decisions one of the best channels on
YouTube thanks for watching and thanks
for your support
[Music]
you